---
id: introduction
title: Introduction
sidebar_position: 1
---

Welcome to the Arke Foundations course! This beginner-friendly, example-led course will guide you through the prerequisite
knowledge for Arke. You will build a simple project step-by-step;

## About Arke

Arke is a collection of tools that helps developers create projects faster by automatically hiding and 
managing the "behind the scenes" of work.

The Arke engine makes your data instantly accessible over the autogenerated APIs, so you can build and ship modern, performant apps and APIs 10x faster.

Today, building the foundation for any app or service requires a lot of effort and a large planning phase. 
Arke saves hours and energy by simplifying this process with just a few clicks.

To effectively use Arke, it helps to be familiar with its glossary, on below you'll find all the entity of Arke.

### Arke

Arke is a type of abstract model that can represent a person, a place or a thing, so it is an abstraction of a concept.

An Arke can be imagined as a json representation of a database table, the name of which will be
determined by the name of the Arke itself. The Arke will be associated with all the Parameters
(imaginable as the DB columns) that each record must have.

### Parameter
A Parameter can be thought of as the column of a DB, so you will need to define what type of data will be saved within it
within it (String, Int, Enum, etc.). They are created globally and can therefore be associated with different Arkes.

### Unit

If we imagine the Arke as a table and the Parameters as the fields that the records in this table are to have, then
the Unit is comparable to the individual record.
After associating the Parameters with a given Arke these will appear in the Unit structure.

### Link
Links define the types of connections that can exist between different Units.

Units can be connected together to create distributed structures.
For example, we can create a **building** unit, a **floor** unit and connect them (topology).

### Groups
Allows the creation of Arke aggregations (e.g., device group).